Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture where we are going to deal with a simple way to generate
a repeating texture.
Now there is a more advanced way where you can make things seamless You can repeat them over and over
again.
However there are some tips and tricks that you can employ So you don't have to spend a lot of time
generating a texture that will repeat.
Well right so before we get going let's talk about the principles that make this a very easy way of
repeating a pattern or texture.
Over and over again without having to spend too much time working on it it's especially important when
you're working on prototypes and trying to get ideas together quickly.
So I'm going to go ahead now and create a new image I'm going to make it 256 by 256 doesn't have to
be that large.
But that's the size that I'm going for at the moment.
A control shift in J.
So I can zoom in all the way.
Now one of the things you can do really quickly is grab something like a pencil tool and just mock-up
what you'll go into doing.
So I'm going to have a wall area around here and there's going to be a floor.
Now that by itself is potentially repeatable.
However if there's a pattern on the wall it may not merge properly when you put another wall statement
next to it.
Now of course at the moment we're just talking about putting these images next to one another side by
side rather than above and below as well.
Now when you put images next to one another in this fashion that is called tiling and we need to make
sure that in this case the image tiles without looking too odd.
Now one of the things we can do is add something in on this side of the image.
And then when it repeats over and over we've got a natural buffer on this side that make sure that the
pattern is different on one side than the other.
So just go ahead and work on that.
Now we can do it very quickly using the buckets all the fill tool and also some patterns to really get
it going quickly.
So I'm going to go ahead now and create myself a new layer.
I'm going to call this laser beam.
Now I don't know if that's exactly right at the moment so let's go ahead and just create a selection
so I can fill that in roughly the right size here.
Now I'm pretty sure that's too big yes is too big.
Down at the bottom here.
So just moving the image round a little I can grab this handle here and move it up.
And you can see that at the very bottom of the screen there's the dimensions of this selection.
And we can see they're going to need to be 256 to be the right height for the image making sure that
the active player is the beam player we can go to our fill buckets go to our pattern fill and find maybe
something wooden since it is a beam we go ahead and put that in.
You'll see that most beams do not have the wood with the grain running that direction.
What's the solution to this will unfortunately we don't have the skills yet to edit and change patterns.
However what we can do is a little bit of a workaround.
We can rotate our image under the image menu transform and 90 degrees if a clockwise or counterclockwise
then we put our wood in the grains going the right way and then go back to each transform and go the
opposite way so went clockwise.
The first time so counterclockwise and now we go we've got the been in a vertical position and now going
to go ahead and create another layer and then keep it all beam.
It's not the right name I'm going to call it Wall and we can build things up in this manner.
Now I'm going to use a shortcut key control.
I need to invert that selection you can also do that through a select menu and invert once that's done
we can fill in the other area.
Now I don't not pick anything specific here I'm going to pick something that looks roughly a texture
a wall texture and there we go.
We've got fat there ready to go.
Now it would be a good idea to see how this would end up repeating.
And what we can do here is go to filter's map and then go down to tile.
When we do this we go on option and to create a new image I always suggest creating an image see don't
accidentally overwrite what you currently have.
We can set the width here maybe two to four times it's current.
We're going to go for a thousand twenty force of the tanabe four of these repeated do make sure that
the little chaneling there is disabled Otherwise you're changing in both the width and the height.
Once we done that we can click okay.
You start scratching your head.
Well this is one of those tools that much like the other ones we've used so far you need to make sure
things are in l.a. group to do to be able to work properly.
So you go back to our original image create a layer group and I'm going to call it wall section so you
can start building things up this way in a drag.
The wall in and we're draped the beam in at this point in time it doesn't really matter which order
they are because none not one of them's in front of the other.
In this particular case with the wall selection wood the wall section selected in the layers we can
then go to filter's map.
Tile and then it hasn't remembered the previous ones.
We had to go in one or two four and now it will repeat and we can see there that breaks up the flow
really really well.
Just a reminder here that if you've got a different one selected like the background it will export
that instead to that new image so just to test it and verify doesn't matter what size we put in here
really as long as it's larger and there we go.
So it's repeating that first selected were ever the active selected layer will be or in this case the
active selected layer group.
Finally the more bespoke way of doing this would be to go ahead and create yourself a new image set
to an appropriate height and width for what you want to do.
In this case so I've got for going along just for testing purposes to make sure that these are going
to gel together as we would expect them to and then go to our view turn on the snap to grid make sure
that show grid is enabled and then on the image configure the grid to be an appropriate size.
And we're working at 256 here so we need to go 256 256 click ourselves.
Okay.
Now we can go to our original image grab that wall section and pop it in.
Then using the move tool a line it's the appropriate location.
Now you may notice there I didn't have the layer group selected So it's moved everything else that select
the lower group and make sure that move the active layer is selected as well.
No we get that snaps into place.
We can then go in and duplicate the layer group and move it to another location.
And this is good if you've made up multiple sections that you want to see how they fit together.
Or of course with it 1024 by 256 you could build up a base image that you're going to edit a bit further
got a bit more variation to your wall because that would also be an acceptable pair of two game assets
that you could use.
And that's right it's now time for a challenge.
I'd like you to go ahead a mock-up your own simple repeating wall section specifically for your dungeon.
Now look at reference images not only to keep you true to what it should be looking like but also from
maybe a bit of inspiration because I'd also like you to make at least two variations of your wall segments.
Finally something that you should consider is what resolution is right for this mock-up.
I suggest starting at a lower resolution and aiming for more of a pixel art.
Look especially if you are brand new to this.
I am probably going to downgrade to maybe as low as 64 by 64 providing Net gives me enough resolution
that I can see details that I'm putting in.
Remember you can always increase the resolution by going to the image menu and changing the canvas size
so this challenge is likely to take around 10 to 20 minutes to do so.
I will see you all in the next lecture.